README.md, before:


[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD%203--Clause-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause)
[![Build Status](https://app.travis-ci.com/aswathselvam/swarm_robots.svg?branch=main)](https://app.travis-ci.com/aswathselvam/swarm_robots)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/aswathselvam/swarm_robots/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/aswathselvam/swarm_robots?branch=main)

# Jackal Rescue Robot

This project is an implementation of a rescue operation using a swarm of [Clearpath Jackal robots](https://clearpathrobotics.com/jackal-small-unmanned-ground-vehicle/).


## Overview
Search and rescue is one of the most widely implemented problems in real-life robotic applications. The task of rescue can be generalized and used for moving an object from a source to any desired destination. In this project, we propose to develop a system that will deploy a swarm of 20 robots in a simulated gazebo environment and help rescue an object successfully to the defined end goal. The robot we propose to use is the Jackal unmanned ground vehicle. Agents in the rescue swarm will spawn at a pre-set start position and then navigate towards the object to be rescued. Once they reach the object contact point the agents will push the object synchronously and start moving towards the goal location.

##### Specifications:
~~~
1. Number of agents in swarm : We propose to implement 20 agents and scale it to 30 in final sprint if time permits
2. Arena : The Gazebo world will will a closed area iwth wall surroundings and will contain immobile obstacles
3. Robot : The dimensions of the jackal robot can be seen in the figure [below](https://clearpathrobotics.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/06/front.jpg)
4. Object : The object to be rescued is a rectangle of dimensions approimately equal to ~ 9m X 3m
 ~~~

<span align="centre">
<img src="https://clearpathrobotics.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/06/front.jpg" alt="cool Robot"></img>

[source](https://clearpathrobotics.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/06/front.jpg)</span>

## Authors
<div style="display:grid;grid-template-columns:auto auto">
<div>
   <p> <b>1. Kavyashree Devadiga (117398045)</b> </br>Computer buff, interested in smart autonomous systems. Has a Bachelors degree in Computer Science and is currently pursuing Masters of Engineering in Robotics at University of Maryland College Park.
      <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/kavyashree-devadiga/" title="LinkedIn" rel="nofollow noreferrer">
      <img src="https://i.stack.imgur.com/gVE0j.png" alt="linkedin">
      </a> &nbsp; 
      <a href="https://github.com/kavyadevd" rel="nofollow noreferrer" title="Github">
      <img src="https://i.imgur.com/J6LeoUb.png" width="19px" alt="github">
      </a>
   </p>
</div>
<div>
   <p> <b>2. Aswath Muthuselvam (118286204)</b></br>Holds interest in Autonomous Mobile Agents, Computer Vision, Simultaneous Localization and Mapping, AI, Real-Time systems, and controls. Has a Bachelors's degree in Electrical, Electronics, and Communications Engineering and is currently pursuing Masters of Engineering in Robotics at the University of Maryland College Park.
      <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/aswath-m/" title="LinkedIn" rel="nofollow noreferrer">
      <img src="https://i.stack.imgur.com/gVE0j.png" alt="linkedin">
      </a> &nbsp; 
      <a href="https://github.com/aswathselvam" title="Github" rel="nofollow noreferrer">
      <img src="https://i.imgur.com/J6LeoUb.png" width="19px" alt="github">
      </a>
   </p>
   </div
</div>

## UML

### Activity diagram
<img src="https://github.com/kavyadevd/swarm_robots/blob/test/UML/ActivityDiagram.png?raw=true" alt="Activity Diagram" width="500px"></img>

### Class diagram
<img src="https://github.com/kavyadevd/swarm_robots/blob/test/UML/Class%20diagram.png?raw=true" width="500px" alt="Class Diagram"></img>



### Assumptions:
1. Robots are not aware of its neighbours.
2. Centralized communication, there is a common node(rosmaster) through which all robots communicates with each other. 
3. Swarms only operate in 2D plane.

### Tested on:
1. Ubuntu 20.04 and Ubuntu 18.04
2. OMPL library version: 1.5.2 

### Development process
The project will be developed using industry-grade agile methodologies. The agile method being adaptive in nature will quickly adapt to software requirements and changes due to challenges faced if any during the project development cycle. For software development, pair programming strategies will be used which will ensure a robust, bug-free package. We have hierarchical test suites, which will test the submodules by implementing unit test cases and the validity of the whole system. To simulate real-world challenges we plan to use different Gmock test cases and confirm the correctness of the system.

[Meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nNpMe6DLzv8XDJHyTaXOK77MExHqAslBlWCvYTAc9Zk/edit?usp=sharing)

[AIP Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eQ78AiMMgUXJpQEjbjUjjJoJ0I1oSbPfRSU09nT6VKE/edit?usp=sharing)

### Installations

It is assumed that the system has Ubuntu 18.04 and above with ROS Melodic/Noetic installed.
If not, install Ubuntu from [here](https://ubuntu.com/download/desktop) and ROS from [here](http://wiki.ros.org/melodic/Installation/Ubuntu)

#### First step is to install Jackal robot
```bash
sudo apt-get install ros-melodic-jackal-simulator ros-melodic-jackal-desktop
cd ~
mkdir -p swarm_robots/src
cd swarm_robots/src && catkin_init_workspace
git clone https://github.com/jackal/jackal.git
git clone https://github.com/jackal/jackal_simulator.git
git clone https://github.com/clearpathrobotics/LMS1xx.git
git clone https://github.com/ros-drivers/pointgrey_camera_driver.git
cd ..
catkin_make
```

#### Install dependencies
##### OMPL
```bash
sudo sh -c 'echo "deb http://packages.ros.org/ros/ubuntu `lsb_release -sc` main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ros-latest.list'
wget http://packages.ros.org/ros.key -O - | sudo apt-key add -

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install ros-`rosversion -d`-ompl
```

##### octomap_mapping
```bash
sudo apt-get install ros-<ros-version>-octomap ros-<ros-version>-octomap-mapping
rosdep install octomap_mapping
rosmake octomap_mapping

```

#### Clone git repository
```bash
cd swarm_robots/src
git clone --recursive https://github.com/kavyadevd/swarm_robots.git
```

#### Execute program
```bash
catkin_make
roslaunch swarm_robots main.launch
```

### Running ROS test/ Gtest

To make the test files execute the following commands successively
```bash
catkin_make tests
catkin_make test
```

Output will be similiar to :

```bash
... logging to /home/kavya/.ros/log/rostest-Matrix-27255.log
[ROSUNIT] Outputting test results to /home/kavya/.ros/test_results/swarm_robots
/rostest-test_testswarm.xml
[ WARN] [1636828912.923804367]: Publisher message will be changed.
[Testcase: testtestswarm] ... ok

[ROSTEST]-----------------------------------------------------------------------

[swarm_robots.rosunit-testswarm/TestArentsInit][passed]
[swarm_robots.rosunit-testswarm/TestSwarmSize][passed]

SUMMARY
 * RESULT: SUCCESS
 * TESTS: 2
 * ERRORS: 0
 * FAILURES: 0

rostest log file is in /home/kavya/.ros/log/rostest-Matrix-27255.log

```

## Guidelines:
```bash
#cppcheck
cppcheck --enable=all --std=c++11 -I include/ --suppress=missingIncludeSystem $( find . -name *.cpp -or -name *.hpp | grep -vE -e "^./build/" -e "^./vendor/") > Results/cppcheckoutput.txt
```

```bash
#cpplint
cpplint $( find . -name *.cpp | grep -vE -e "^./build/" -e "^./vendor/") $( find . -name *.hpp | grep -vE -e "^./build/" -e "^./vendor/") > Results/cpplintoutput.txt
```


## Licensing
The project is licensed under the [3-Clause BSD License](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause). Click [here](https://github.com/kavyadevd/swarm_robots/blob/main/LICENSE) to know more

Commit message:

1.10 Add ROS Service instruction
Add execuion step to call ros service

README.md, after:


[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-BSD%203--Clause-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause)
[![Build Status](https://app.travis-ci.com/aswathselvam/swarm_robots.svg?branch=main)](https://app.travis-ci.com/aswathselvam/swarm_robots)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/aswathselvam/swarm_robots/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/aswathselvam/swarm_robots?branch=main)

# Jackal Rescue Robot

This project is an implementation of a rescue operation using a swarm of [Clearpath Jackal robots](https://clearpathrobotics.com/jackal-small-unmanned-ground-vehicle/).


## Overview
Search and rescue is one of the most widely implemented problems in real-life robotic applications. The task of rescue can be generalized and used for moving an object from a source to any desired destination. In this project, we propose to develop a system that will deploy a swarm of 20 robots in a simulated gazebo environment and help rescue an object successfully to the defined end goal. The robot we propose to use is the Jackal unmanned ground vehicle. Agents in the rescue swarm will spawn at a pre-set start position and then navigate towards the object to be rescued. Once they reach the object contact point the agents will push the object synchronously and start moving towards the goal location.

##### Specifications:
~~~
1. Number of agents in swarm : We propose to implement 20 agents and scale it to 30 in final sprint if time permits
2. Arena : The Gazebo world will will a closed area iwth wall surroundings and will contain immobile obstacles
3. Robot : The dimensions of the jackal robot can be seen in the figure [below](https://clearpathrobotics.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/06/front.jpg)
4. Object : The object to be rescued is a rectangle of dimensions approimately equal to ~ 9m X 3m
 ~~~

<span align="centre">
<img src="https://clearpathrobotics.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/06/front.jpg" alt="cool Robot"></img>

[source](https://clearpathrobotics.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/06/front.jpg)</span>

## Authors
<div style="display:grid;grid-template-columns:auto auto">
<div>
   <p> <b>1. Kavyashree Devadiga (117398045)</b> </br>Computer buff, interested in smart autonomous systems. Has a Bachelors degree in Computer Science and is currently pursuing Masters of Engineering in Robotics at University of Maryland College Park.
      <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/kavyashree-devadiga/" title="LinkedIn" rel="nofollow noreferrer">
      <img src="https://i.stack.imgur.com/gVE0j.png" alt="linkedin">
      </a> &nbsp; 
      <a href="https://github.com/kavyadevd" rel="nofollow noreferrer" title="Github">
      <img src="https://i.imgur.com/J6LeoUb.png" width="19px" alt="github">
      </a>
   </p>
</div>
<div>
   <p> <b>2. Aswath Muthuselvam (118286204)</b></br>Holds interest in Autonomous Mobile Agents, Computer Vision, Simultaneous Localization and Mapping, AI, Real-Time systems, and controls. Has a Bachelors's degree in Electrical, Electronics, and Communications Engineering and is currently pursuing Masters of Engineering in Robotics at the University of Maryland College Park.
      <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/aswath-m/" title="LinkedIn" rel="nofollow noreferrer">
      <img src="https://i.stack.imgur.com/gVE0j.png" alt="linkedin">
      </a> &nbsp; 
      <a href="https://github.com/aswathselvam" title="Github" rel="nofollow noreferrer">
      <img src="https://i.imgur.com/J6LeoUb.png" width="19px" alt="github">
      </a>
   </p>
   </div
</div>

## UML

### Activity diagram
<img src="https://github.com/kavyadevd/swarm_robots/blob/test/UML/ActivityDiagram.png?raw=true" alt="Activity Diagram" width="500px"></img>

### Class diagram
<img src="https://github.com/kavyadevd/swarm_robots/blob/test/UML/Class%20diagram.png?raw=true" width="500px" alt="Class Diagram"></img>



### Assumptions:
1. Robots are not aware of its neighbours.
2. Centralized communication, there is a common node(rosmaster) through which all robots communicates with each other. 
3. Swarms only operate in 2D plane.

### Tested on:
1. Ubuntu 20.04 and Ubuntu 18.04
2. OMPL library version: 1.5.2 

### Development process
The project will be developed using industry-grade agile methodologies. The agile method being adaptive in nature will quickly adapt to software requirements and changes due to challenges faced if any during the project development cycle. For software development, pair programming strategies will be used which will ensure a robust, bug-free package. We have hierarchical test suites, which will test the submodules by implementing unit test cases and the validity of the whole system. To simulate real-world challenges we plan to use different Gmock test cases and confirm the correctness of the system.

[Meeting notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nNpMe6DLzv8XDJHyTaXOK77MExHqAslBlWCvYTAc9Zk/edit?usp=sharing)

[AIP Spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eQ78AiMMgUXJpQEjbjUjjJoJ0I1oSbPfRSU09nT6VKE/edit?usp=sharing)

### Installations

It is assumed that the system has Ubuntu 18.04 and above with ROS Melodic/Noetic installed.
If not, install Ubuntu from [here](https://ubuntu.com/download/desktop) and ROS from [here](http://wiki.ros.org/melodic/Installation/Ubuntu)

#### First step is to install Jackal robot
```bash
sudo apt-get install ros-melodic-jackal-simulator ros-melodic-jackal-desktop
cd ~
mkdir -p swarm_robots/src
cd swarm_robots/src && catkin_init_workspace
git clone https://github.com/jackal/jackal.git
git clone https://github.com/jackal/jackal_simulator.git
git clone https://github.com/clearpathrobotics/LMS1xx.git
git clone https://github.com/ros-drivers/pointgrey_camera_driver.git
cd ..
catkin_make
```

#### Install dependencies
##### OMPL
```bash
sudo sh -c 'echo "deb http://packages.ros.org/ros/ubuntu `lsb_release -sc` main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ros-latest.list'
wget http://packages.ros.org/ros.key -O - | sudo apt-key add -

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install ros-`rosversion -d`-ompl
```

##### octomap_mapping
```bash
sudo apt-get install ros-<ros-version>-octomap ros-<ros-version>-octomap-mapping
rosdep install octomap_mapping
rosmake octomap_mapping

```

#### Clone git repository
```bash
cd swarm_robots/src
git clone --recursive https://github.com/kavyadevd/swarm_robots.git
```

#### Execute program
```bash
catkin_make
roslaunch swarm_robots main.launch
```

#### ROS Service
Stop the robots using this service
```bash
rosservice call /service "stop"
```


### Running ROS test/ Gtest

To make the test files execute the following commands successively
```bash
catkin_make tests
catkin_make test
```

Output will be similiar to :

```bash
... logging to /home/kavya/.ros/log/rostest-Matrix-27255.log
[ROSUNIT] Outputting test results to /home/kavya/.ros/test_results/swarm_robots
/rostest-test_testswarm.xml
[ WARN] [1636828912.923804367]: Publisher message will be changed.
[Testcase: testtestswarm] ... ok

[ROSTEST]-----------------------------------------------------------------------

[swarm_robots.rosunit-testswarm/TestArentsInit][passed]
[swarm_robots.rosunit-testswarm/TestSwarmSize][passed]

SUMMARY
 * RESULT: SUCCESS
 * TESTS: 2
 * ERRORS: 0
 * FAILURES: 0

rostest log file is in /home/kavya/.ros/log/rostest-Matrix-27255.log

```

## Guidelines:
```bash
#cppcheck
cppcheck --enable=all --std=c++11 -I include/ --suppress=missingIncludeSystem $( find . -name *.cpp -or -name *.hpp | grep -vE -e "^./build/" -e "^./vendor/") > Results/cppcheckoutput.txt
```

```bash
#cpplint
cpplint $( find . -name *.cpp | grep -vE -e "^./build/" -e "^./vendor/") $( find . -name *.hpp | grep -vE -e "^./build/" -e "^./vendor/") > Results/cpplintoutput.txt
```


## Licensing
The project is licensed under the [3-Clause BSD License](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause). Click [here](https://github.com/kavyadevd/swarm_robots/blob/main/LICENSE) to know more
